# DataMining
Project Files for Data Mining Class. Takes saudi arabian car data and uses machine learning and regression models to predict future prices.
## Collaborators
Jackson Rini, Sultan Alshakrah, Abdulrahman Baflah, Majed Zamzami
## Abstract
In this paper, we aim to use regression analysis to determine which used car brand maintains its value optimally based on the amount driven. We have discussed the need for this topic as well as examined similar studies that have been conducted related to our work. Our team has found two databases and combined them into one to have more data points to work on. Then, we also cleaned the data by getting rid of outliers, null values, and other values that hindered our work. We have created predictive models in three different methodologies: random forest regression, linear regression, and gradient boosting regression (XGBoost) to accomplish our goal. We evaluated the three models and by comparing the mean squared error and other factors we could choose which model to continue analysis on.
## Introduction
There has been a massive decline in the purchase of new cars in Saudi Arabia for many reasons. There has been a 60% decline in the sales of new cars since 2020 mainly because of the COVID-19 lockdown ( Impact of COVID-19 on the passenger car aftermarket in Saudi Arabia, 2020). In response to the financial and economic repercussions of COVID-19, Saudi Arabia implemented a substantial increase in its Value Added Tax (VAT) rate, raising it from 5% to 15% as of July 1, 2020. This VAT hike inevitably led to higher prices for new automobiles making them less appealing than before. New cars have become more and more out of reach of some people in Saudi Arabia. While the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly contributed to the boom in the used car market, other financial and economic factors have also played a pivotal role in expediting this growth. “Customers have postponed the purchase of a new car until there is more clarity in the near future. As a result, close to 50% of the buyers have expressed a strong desire to purchase high-quality used cars at a reasonable price” (Saudi Arabia’s used cars sales market is poised to take off, 2022). This makes the discussion of used cars and the depreciation of the price of a car more important than ever. In addition, used car dealers generally believe that Saudis tend to replace their vehicles every 2 to 4 years. This means we will probably see a huge shift in the ratio of used cars (20% in 2019) and new cars in favor of used cars. The factors for when to buy a used car or when to sell it have drastically changed. The usage of cars in Saudi Arabia in general is only going up. “GCG estimates that almost 75% of commuters in Saudi Arabia travel nearly 2 hours or more per day; those in Riyadh travel more than 2 hours”( Impact of COVID-19 on the passenger car aftermarket in Saudi Arabia, 2020). Furthermore, the increasing presence of women drivers on the roads has led to a greater demand for private driving licenses, a surge in motor insurance, the expansion of driving schools, and a notable uptick in car sales and leasing, ultimately benefiting the aftermarket sector.

This has caused the discussion of what used cars someone should buy for everyday use. Many points are brought up whether it is fuel consumption, country of manufacturing of the car, and the efficiency of the car in general. In order to understand the efficiency of cars and their brands we decided to understand what factors cause the car to depreciate and at what rate. The main objective of this project is to understand which cars hold their prices the most. To achieve this we needed to first be able to predict car prices in general. Then understand the change in car price based on some factors. This information could significantly impact the decision-making of the average Saudi citizen when purchasing a car, and allow people to make more informed decisions.
## Related Work
Mammadov (2021), a researcher at Carlo Bo University of Urbino, Italy, analyzed a dataset of used cars in the USA to make car predictions. He did this by using linear regression. His dataset had 25 attributes and over 100 thousand objects; much more than ours. He found correlations and built the linear regression based on that. He concluded that low-priced cars often have high mileage on them. 

Erdem, Associate Professor, and Senturk, Research Assistant, (2009) have developed a hedonistic regression on used cars in Turkey to determine what are the characteristics that affect the car price. One conclusion that they arrived at was that the model year of a car has a 5 percent significance level. This is helpful because one of the attributes in our dataset is the model year. Another one that is not useful is that the vehicles with the color black or gray tend to have a higher average price than other cars. The last one we would mention is the city factor. Different cities have different prices for the same car, Istanbul, the most populated city in Turkey, has a lower price compared to other cities in Turkey.
